docs/custom-items/items-list.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: 📃 Items List
title: Items List
---

# Items List
A list of all Custom Items displaying their statistics, and ability descriptions. Also includes all materials and how to obtain them.

## Obtaining Materials
:::tip
Use Ctrl+F (or CMD+F on macOS) to search for the material you're looking for!
:::

### Early Game Materials
|**Name**|**How to obtain**|
| :------------- |:-------------
Ancient Trident Fragment|Dropped by defeating Poseidon in `/boss`.
Archaic Monolith|Obtained from defeating the Runic King Boss in the Runic Temple dungeon.
Bandit Sigil|Dropped by killing Bandits in the Desert in the Overworld.
Block of Steel|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Bottle of Wind|Obtained by capturing wind in a snowy biome in windy weather (white particles, wind sounds). To capture wind, right-click while holding an Empty Wind Bottle crafted from the sorcerer.
Blue Jewel|Dropped from Blue Jewel Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Chalkstone|Dropped by killing Blackstone Golems in the Basalt Deltas in the Nether.
Cheese|Crafted from the Food Vendor at `/warp food`.
Condensed Flesh|Crafted from the Sorcerer at `/warp crafting`, or dropped by Rotting Zombies.
Crystalized Obsidian Fragment|Dropped by chance from mining Obsidian.
Decaying Flesh|Drops from Decaying Drowneds in Oceans in the Overworld.
Enchanted Shard|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Runic Temple dungeon.
Hardened Diamond|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Hoglin Meat|Dropped by killing Raged Hoglins in the Nether.
Infernal Soul|Dropped by killing Fire Mages and Infernal Husks in the Nether Wastes.
Leviathan Tail|Drops from the Leviathan mini-boss in Oceans in the Overworld.
Limestone|Dropped from Limestone Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Mana Dust|Crafted from the Sorcerer at `/warp crafting`.
Mystical Branch|Dropped by killing Tree Spirits in Jungle/Forest biomes in the Overworld.
Orc Tooth|Dropped by killing Orcs in the Overworld.
Purple Jewel|Dropped from Purple Jewel Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Red Jewel|Dropped from Red Jewel Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Runic Fragment|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Runic Temple dungeon.
Salt Crystal|Dropped by killing Salt Golems in Salt Flats in the Overworld.
Sharpening Flint|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Soul Bone|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`, or dropped by killing Reaper Skeletons in the Overworld.
Spider Silk|Dropped by killing Poison, Wither, Frost, and Fire spiders in the Overworld.
Steel Ingot|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Tomato|Dropped by destroying Oak and Dark Oak leaves.
Toughstone|Dropped by mining ores, killing Stone Golems in caves in the Overworld, or crafted from Toughstone Chips dropped from Rich/Pure/Toughstone Ores in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Warden's Tribute|Dropped by killing the [Warden Anomaly](../custom-mobs/world-bosses.md) world-boss.

### Mid Game Materials
|**Name**|**How to obtain**|
| :------------- |:-------------
Aether Crust|Dropped by Aether Guards in the outer End.
Ancient Stormland Debris|Obtained from chests in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Arcane Fragment|Dropped by killing the Arcane Shadowmage mini-boss or the Voidkeeper world-boss.
Arctic Crystal|Dropped by killing Arctic Sorcerers in Snow Biomes in the Overworld.
Ash|Dropped by killing Magma Spirits in the Nether Wastes.
Bewitched Eye|Dropped by Hexed Eyes in the outer End.
Boreal Crystal|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp blacksmith`, or dropped by the Ruined Frost King in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Bottled Spell|Dropped by Ether Witches in the outer End.
Broodmother Fang|Dropped by defeating the Fire Broodmother in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Chilled Slimeball|Dropped by killing Chilled Slimes in Snow Biomes in the Overworld.
Corrupted Eye|Dropped by killing Corrupted Enderman anywhere in the End.
Cosmic Twilight|Dropped by Cosmic Delucions in the outer End.
Crimson Essence|Dropped by killing Crimson Golem in Crimson Forests in the Nether.
Cryo Fragment|Dropped by defeating the Ruined Frost King in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
End Stone Crystal|Dropped by mining End Stone.
Etheric Shell|Dropped by Etheric Shulkers in the outer End.
Feria Dust|Dropped by mobs in the Feriah Farlands.
Galestone|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Glowing Eye|Dropped by Enderweavers in the outer End.
Heart of the Void|Dropped by defeating the VoidKeeper world-boss.
Hematite|Dropped by Obsidian Warriors in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Hoarfrost Crystal|Dropped by mobs in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Intertwined Crystal|Dropped by killing Warped Golems in the Warped Forest in the Nether.
Magma Core|Dropped by fire mobs in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Seeker Heart|Dropped by Seekers anywhere in the End.
Shining Star|Dropped by killing Starlight Fairies in the outer End.
Skeleton Shaman Soul|Dropped by killing the Skeleton Shaman mini-boss in the Soul Sand Valley in the Nether.
Snowland Soul|Dropped by Snowland Spirits in the Feriah Farlands.
Stellar Core|Dropped from an extremely rare Fading Star event in the End.
Unstable Fragment|Dropped from Cosmic Delusions and Corrupted Enderman in the outer End.
Unstable Matter|Crafted from the Matter Station in the outer End, spawns on a rare occasion.
Void Essence|Dropped by Ender Revenants and Void Archers anywhere in the End.

### Late Game Materials
|**Name**|**How to obtain**|
| :------------- |:-------------
Ancient Silver|Obtained from killing mobs in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
Ancient Tome|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
Archonic Gold|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
Harmony of Delusion|Obtained from defeating the Ancient Titan boss in the Ancient Desert dungeon.

Commit message:

Add more skills to item skills list, add missing materials in items list

docs/custom-items/items-list.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: 📃 Items List
title: Items List
---

# Items List
A list of all materials, and how to obtain them.

## Obtaining Materials
:::tip
Use Ctrl+F (or CMD+F on macOS) to search for the material you're looking for!
:::

### Early Game Materials
|**Name**|**How to obtain**|
| :------------- |:-------------
Ancient Trident Fragment|Dropped by defeating Poseidon in `/boss`.
Archaic Monolith|Obtained from defeating the Runic King Boss in the Runic Temple dungeon.
Bandit Sigil|Dropped by killing Bandits in the Desert in the Overworld.
Block of Steel|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Bottle of Wind|Obtained by capturing wind in a snowy biome in windy weather (white particles, wind sounds). To capture wind, right-click while holding an Empty Wind Bottle crafted from the sorcerer.
Blue Jewel|Dropped from Blue Jewel Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Chalkstone|Dropped by killing Blackstone Golems in the Basalt Deltas in the Nether.
Cheese|Crafted from the Food Vendor at `/warp food`.
Condensed Flesh|Crafted from the Sorcerer at `/warp crafting`, or dropped by Rotting Zombies.
Crystalized Obsidian Fragment|Dropped by chance from mining Obsidian.
Decaying Flesh|Drops from Decaying Drowneds in Oceans in the Overworld.
Enchanted Shard|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Runic Temple dungeon.
Emblem of Tides|Dropped by defeating the Poseidon [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of Ignition|Dropped by defeating the Saok [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of Flames|Dropped by defeating the Ornan [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of The Underworld|Dropped by defeating the Hades [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of Thunder|Dropped by defeating the Zeus [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of The Cycle|Dropped by defeating the Anubis [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of The Smith|Dropped by defeating the Hephaistos [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of Magic|Dropped by defeating the Odin [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Emblem of Darkness|Dropped by defeating the Aknyzor [arena boss](../gameplay-mechanics/boss-fights.md).
Hardened Diamond|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Hoglin Meat|Dropped by killing Raged Hoglins in the Nether.
Infernal Soul|Dropped by killing Fire Mages and Infernal Husks in the Nether Wastes.
Large Bottled Spell|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Leviathan Tail|Drops from the Leviathan mini-boss in Oceans in the Overworld.
Limestone|Dropped from Limestone Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Mana Dust|Crafted from the Sorcerer at `/warp crafting`.
Mystical Branch|Dropped by killing Tree Spirits in Jungle/Forest biomes in the Overworld.
Orc Tooth|Dropped by killing Orcs in the Overworld.
Purple Jewel|Dropped from Purple Jewel Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Red Jewel|Dropped from Red Jewel Deposits in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Runic Fragment|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Runic Temple dungeon.
Salt Crystal|Dropped by killing Salt Golems in Salt Flats in the Overworld.
Sharpening Flint|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Soul Bone|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`, or dropped by killing Reaper Skeletons in the Overworld.
Spider Silk|Dropped by killing Poison, Wither, Frost, and Fire spiders in the Overworld.
Steel Ingot|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Tomato|Dropped by destroying Oak and Dark Oak leaves.
Toughstone|Dropped by mining ores, killing Stone Golems in caves in the Overworld, or crafted from Toughstone Chips dropped from Rich/Pure/Toughstone Ores in the [Miner's Mountain](../gameplay-mechanics/miners-mountain.md).
Warden's Tribute|Dropped by killing the [Warden Anomaly](../custom-mobs/world-bosses.md) world-boss.
Wardenite|Dropped by Wardens.

### Mid Game Materials
|**Name**|**How to obtain**|
| :------------- |:-------------
Aether Crust|Dropped by Aether Guards in the outer End.
Ancient Stormland Debris|Obtained from chests in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Arcane Fragment|Dropped by killing the Arcane Shadowmage mini-boss or the [Voidkeeper](../custom-mobs/world-bosses.md) world-boss.
Arctic Crystal|Dropped by killing Arctic Sorcerers in Snow Biomes in the Overworld.
Ash|Dropped by killing Magma Spirits in the Nether Wastes.
Bewitched Eye|Dropped by Hexed Eyes in the outer End.
Boreal Crystal|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp blacksmith`, or dropped by the Ruined Frost King in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Bottled Spell|Dropped by Ether Witches in the outer End.
Broodmother Fang|Dropped by defeating the Fire Broodmother in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Broken Soul Stone|Dropped by Withered Reapers in the Soul Sand Valley in the Nether.
Chilled Slimeball|Dropped by killing Chilled Slimes in Snow Biomes in the Overworld.
Corrupted Eye|Dropped by killing Corrupted Enderman anywhere in the End.
Cosmic Twilight|Dropped by Cosmic Delucions in the outer End.
Crimson Essence|Dropped by killing Crimson Golem in Crimson Forests in the Nether.
Cryo Fragment|Dropped by defeating the Ruined Frost King in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
End Stone Crystal|Dropped by mining End Stone.
Etheric Shell|Dropped by Etheric Shulkers in the outer End.
Feria Dust|Dropped by mobs in the Feriah Farlands.
Galestone|Crafted from the Blacksmith at `/warp crafting`.
Glowing Eye|Dropped by Enderweavers in the outer End.
Heart of the Fell Crimson|Dropped by defeating the [Acheron](../custom-mobs/world-bosses.md) world-boss.
Heart of the Void|Dropped by defeating the [Voidkeeper](../custom-mobs/world-bosses.md) world-boss.
Hematite|Dropped by Obsidian Warriors in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Hoarfrost Crystal|Dropped by mobs in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Intertwined Crystal|Dropped by killing Warped Golems in the Warped Forest in the Nether.
Magma Core|Dropped by fire mobs in the Feriah Caverns dungeon.
Seeker Heart|Dropped by Seekers anywhere in the End.
Shining Star|Dropped by killing Starlight Fairies in the outer End.
Skeleton Shaman Soul|Dropped by killing the Skeleton Shaman mini-boss in the Soul Sand Valley in the Nether.
Snowland Soul|Dropped by Snowland Spirits in the Feriah Farlands.
Sonic Shard|Dropped by Sculk Travelers in the Deep Dark biome. 
Stellar Core|Dropped from an extremely rare Fading Star event in the End.
Unstable Fragment|Dropped from Cosmic Delusions and Corrupted Enderman in the outer End.
Unstable Matter|Crafted from the Matter Station in the outer End, spawns on a rare occasion.
Void Essence|Dropped by Ender Revenants and Void Archers anywhere in the End.

### Late Game Materials
|**Name**|**How to obtain**|
| :------------- |:-------------
Ancient Silver|Obtained from killing mobs in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
Ancient Tome|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
Archonic Gold|Obtained from Chests or Loot Enderman in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
Harmony of Delusion|Obtained from defeating the Ancient Titan boss in the Ancient Desert dungeon.
