docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
---

# HexArchon Wiki

I don't know Javascript or html nor any other web stuff

This is a test commit

Let's discover **Docusaurus in less than 5 minutes**.

## Getting Started

Get started by **creating a new site**.

Or **try Docusaurus immediately** with **[docusaurus.new](https://docusaurus.new)**.

### What you'll need

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 14 or above:
  - When installing Node.js, you are recommended to check all checkboxes related to dependencies.

## Generate a new site

Generate a new Docusaurus site using the **classic template**.

The classic template will automatically be added to your project after you run the command:

```bash
npm init docusaurus@latest my-website classic
```

You can type this command into Command Prompt, Powershell, Terminal, or any other integrated terminal of your code editor.

The command also installs all necessary dependencies you need to run Docusaurus.

## Start your site

Run the development server:

```bash
cd my-website
npm run start
```

The `cd` command changes the directory you're working with. In order to work with your newly created Docusaurus site, you'll need to navigate the terminal there.

The `npm run start` command builds your website locally and serves it through a development server, ready for you to view at http://localhost:3000/.

Open `docs/intro.md` (this page) and edit some lines: the site **reloads automatically** and displays your changes.

Commit message:

Theme changes, basic framework changes

docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
---

# HexArchon Wiki

Welcome to the HexArchon Wiki! Click on the categories to the left to navigate around the wiki. For any questions not answered by the wiki, you can always ask us on our [Discord!](https://discord.hexarchon.net/)

Are you new? [Click me to get started!](getting-started/getting-started.md)

## Introduction to HexArchon

HexArchon offers a variety of custom gameplay mechanics for a unique survival experience. Themed based on magic and spells, we offer mechanics such as Custom Items, Enchants, Mobs, Boss Fights, Quests, Terrains, and much more.

We are a new server looking forward to the future with our community! We are very open to any suggestions and other comments.

<!-- I don't know Javascript or html nor any other web stuff

This is a test commit

Let's discover **Docusaurus in less than 5 minutes**.

## Getting Started

Get started by **creating a new site**.

Or **try Docusaurus immediately** with **[docusaurus.new](https://docusaurus.new)**.

### What you'll need

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) version 14 or above:
  - When installing Node.js, you are recommended to check all checkboxes related to dependencies.

## Generate a new site

Generate a new Docusaurus site using the **classic template**.

The classic template will automatically be added to your project after you run the command:

```bash
npm init docusaurus@latest my-website classic
```

You can type this command into Command Prompt, Powershell, Terminal, or any other integrated terminal of your code editor.

The command also installs all necessary dependencies you need to run Docusaurus.

## Start your site

Run the development server:

```bash
cd my-website
npm run start
```

The `cd` command changes the directory you're working with. In order to work with your newly created Docusaurus site, you'll need to navigate the terminal there.

The `npm run start` command builds your website locally and serves it through a development server, ready for you to view at http://localhost:3000/.

Open `docs/intro.md` (this page) and edit some lines: the site **reloads automatically** and displays your changes. -->
